I think it's very easy to fall into the
trap of well we want to make sure that
there are no bugs. It's like you know
what's one great way to make sure that
you have no bugs? Don't chip anything.
Don't write any code. You will have no
bugs. And that's the problem with that
approach. If you are solving for great
outcome and great impact, you want
things to be breaking.
[Music]
All right. Kareem, we're going to start
this conversation at the very end, which
is today, because you have one of the
most unique perspectives on what's going
on in the world as this technology
paradigm is shifting where you're not an
upstart anymore. You're a big
established company, but at the same
time, you run the company like an
upstart, like it's day one, and you're
up against massive incumbents. And so
the reason I'm interested in this like
cocktail is this is going to happen in
every industry where there's big stodgy
incumbents that have been doing things a
certain way for a long time. There's
going to be fast talented young
companies that challenge them. And so
I'm curious for you to detail what it's
like to be in that position right now
where you're past a billion in revenue.
You're one of the fastest companies ever
to grow to that that size in five six
years and you're up against MX and
companies like this. What what does that
feel like? like what does the
competitive battlefield feel like to you
today?
>> It's very exciting. But even when you
are describing us as uh no longer an
upstart, it's like I I uh I still
haven't internalized this to be honest
with you. I I think about like the the
the most exciting aspect of being a
startup is that you get to grow very uh
fast, make decisions quickly and move
quickly. So we are trying to maintain
that as much as we can and we do this by
essentially breaking up all the
different problems we're trying to go
after and give small teams full autonomy
over these problems. So every time I
spent I spent some time with a small
part of the company, it does it does
feel like they have full autonomy over
the the problem they're they're going uh
after and the way they're building. And
I'd say with like what's going on with
AI advancements and the different ways
that that companies are are starting to
build is that every company's trying to
figure out how to uh adopt those new
technologies and and benefit from them.
And you have you're still in the phase
where you have like these articles
coming out every couple weeks that are
mixed. Some will say like oh companies
are adopting AI but not seeing any
benefit. and another week you have an
article from someone you think highly of
or you trust saying that like their
company has adopted AI in uh some part
of the organization. It's had like an
immense impact on them. So it's still
early. It's obvious to me that the uh
impacts of adopting the technology are
transformative but a lot of companies
are still stuck in the very early phases
and I would describe the first very
early phase as you are using those uh
LLMs to do the same work that you were
doing before maybe a little bit faster
or more efficiently. So if you're a
developer for example you are using AI
to help you write a little bit more
code. So, you're not sure on how to
write the next couple of lines of codes.
Uh, you go to a chat GPT, you go to an
LLM and, uh, have it give you advice.
You get some code, you copy, you copy
it, you paste it. Uh, maybe you go a
little bit further and you start using
these a agents where you describe your
problem in English and you use a a
cognition or or a cursor and then you
get a lot more code written for you and
then you're reviewing it and and that's
that's cool. Uh, but I think that the
next phase that we're we're entering and
the one that I'm I'm I'm seeing in our
company is one where you start thinking
about these LLMs really as as part of
your product and you're pro programming
them. So you're no longer writing the
same code that you used to write with
the help of LLMs. Your code is the LLM
now. Your code is the LLM uh plus
instructions and an infinite loop. So
you're essentially like writing those
those those agents like that. That's
what it means. And uh we're in the
middle of that right now. Do you have a
favorite example of that so far that
you've actually deployed and is working?
>> Yeah, of course. I'd say the the most
obvious one is um what we we call
internally our our like the what we call
the policy agent. So most companies have
a travel uh and expense uh management
policy. Uh it's generally a document.
Sometimes it's well written and and
clear and sometimes it's not. That's
that's that's it's essentially a
document that you write to drive the
behaviors of uh people in the company
and how they they how they manage their
their expenses. Right? In the old world,
people make transactions before they
make the transaction. Sometimes they'll
go and check the expense report.
Sometimes they try to remember it from
memory. They'll make a transaction.
They'll file an expense report and some
manager will try to make sure that some
manager or someone on the finance team
will try to make sure that the expense
that was made by the employee actually
abides by the rules of the expense
policy. It's very manual. U generally
the transactions are missing context. So
there's a lot of back and forth between
the the people enforcing the policy and
the people who made the transaction.
Takes a lot of time. So we've built our
policy agent uh in a way that it has
more context about the transaction than
most people reviewing those transactions
today. So it's integrated with your
calendar, it's integrated with your
email, it knows your expense policy,
etc. And more context about the policy
than than than any employee. So it can
run 24/7 as transaction comes come come
in and uh apply the logic of the expense
policy against these transactions and
decide whether something is in in policy
or not. Uh and do that a lot more
efficiently than than any human. So you
have a 24/7 live enforcement of uh your
policy. And not only that, but as it
runs over time, it gets better at
advising how to make uh the policy a
little bit uh clearer or easier to
interpret and your policy becomes better
and better over time. You essentially
have this living breathing text document
that can evolve over time that's guiding
an agent that has access to tools like
your calendar, email, etc. on how to
classify transactions. Um and that same
principle applies in so many different
parts of the company. Now the good thing
about expense policies is most company
have them but companies do all sorts of
things that uh sometimes are not written
down that can be very easily automated
by agents. So for example when you
receive an invoice uh as a company what
do you do? It's like well you do you do
a couple things. One you make sure that
the invoice is not fraudulent. Maybe you
make sure that uh you're being invoiced
for a product that you've actually
ordered a product that you've actually
received. You make sure that the price
matches what you had uh negotiated. So
there's a lot of steps that actually
happen uh before and after any payment
that a company makes. And most of the
time they're not very well documented.
And a lot of the work that we're doing
right now is uh because we have uh so
many interesting customers and they're
using the the the product to run their
their finances. We we can infer a lot of
these policies through their behavior.
And a lot of that those policies that
we're inferring are driving the next
generation of agents that that we're
building. I was with an old friend last
week who was in town for I think Visa
had some sort of big conference in New
York last week and all the you know all
the various players from your
competitors and people in your industry
were there and he told me that he had no
affiliation with with you or or with me
that everyone there was bitching about
ramp taking all their customers and I'm
curious what you think the most common
reasons are for that when you're beating
whoever it is what are the most common
attribution reasons when you study why a
given customer is picking you over
somebody else because it seems a little
bit like slowly then suddenly thing is
happening with ramp. You and I have
talked about this offline and I'm
curious why it feels that way to you and
I think it relates to the speed of
product and everything else but but I
want to hear it from you.
>> I mean I I still go back to the early
days and and why a lot of people even
picked us when we didn't have that much
uh credibility or or social proofing.
our obsession over wanting to build
consumergrade
uh user experience for a business
product. You think about a lot of the
business products that were built in the
previous generation, they were
essentially built for built for decision
makers. So you think about building a I
don't know like an an HR tool or
anything. It's like well who's a
decision maker? It's like well that
person on the team. Great. It's like
we're going to build it for them. we're
going to pitch it to them and we're just
going to convince them to switch to us.
And once they do, we're going to care a
lot less about them. And then you end up
with these business software that is
used at a company that maybe solves the
problem of the one decision maker, but
makes everyone else at the company very
miserable. It's like you solve one
person's problem, but you give everyone
else of the company just a small paper
cut every day. And we wanted to reverse
that. There's a lot of business software
that was built in that way, right? Like
no care for the the user experience. And
when we set out to build ramp, we wanted
the user experience of uh an Instagram
but applied to to business software. Um
so I I would say design obsession has
helped us a lot and just polishing every
single interaction making sure that we
only ask questions that are absolutely
necessary that we can prefill any form
that can be pre-filled so that you have
as little work to do as a as as a user
of the product. And over time we got
even better at this because we get even
more data about how people want to use
the the product and uh we can skip even
more steps and that obsession over
design really turned into an obsession
over minimizing the amount of time
people spend in our app.
>> I was going to ask what the process is
to make that possible. So someone else
listening wants to build a consumer
grade app in some other business area
like what is the actual practice of of
doing that over and over and over again?
you keep looking at every interaction
that you have with a customer, right? It
could be an email, it could be a form,
and then you ask yourself, it's like,
how can I figure out the answer to that
question myself without asking the
customer or if I'm telling the customer
to do X, why can't I do it for them? So,
for example, you get uh I'm sure you've
gotten like one of those error messages
from a product that you've used that
will tell you, "Hey, Patrick, you tried
to do X, it didn't work. uh you might
want to try one like retrying the
payment or the transaction, two changing
your bank account details or something
like this. Well, instead of doing this,
we could retry it ourselves for example
and if we are asking you to change your
banking details or to submit a piece of
information instead of just telling you
an email like go to our website and
submit your information, we could have a
form right there uh that allows you to
submit your information in the email. So
there's always a way to like skip a step
and make it a little bit uh faster and
we're we're essentially always obsessing
uh over that.
>> I feel like this is rooted in your
personal psychology. I was I was talking
to our friend David before this and he
uses the phrase all the time divinely
discontent. Yeah. Uh he told me the
story of the day that you announced the
$13 billion valuation round which of
course exciting moment in the company's
history that he was with you and all you
were doing was screaming about problems
in the product and the team and things
not moving fast enough and like zero
enjoyment on a day that you would have
had a good excuse to be, you know, a
little bit more relaxed and instead just
like pissed off about something and the
product not being good enough. Can you
talk about where that comes from for
you? Like how long it's been like that?
There probably two reasons uh for it.
One is a lot of the results that you are
seeing today uh at at ramp are due to
the efforts that we put in and solving
the problems 6 months to a year ago. So
current quarter was baked in a couple
months ago. So I always find it a little
bit weird to celebrate lagging
indicators. I often think that they they
put at risk some of the very important
work that we are trying to do today and
solving the problems that we have today
because people might feel like oh like
things are going amazingly well like we
don't really have any problems and
that's not true there always problems
and always ways to make things better
faster more efficient. It's it's just a
s of like hey we're working on such
important things and if we don't realize
that they're really important we might
uh mess up the next 6 months and the
next year. The other one is I feel like
if things were good, I wouldn't and we
didn't really have problems, I wouldn't
know what what what to do with myself.
Like, what are we doing here? If the the
job's actually done, and the good thing
is the the job's never done. We could
always push it further, do better.
There's always more time that could be
shaved off of every single user
interaction experience. It's like, as
I'm talking, it's like I'm I'm
visualizing these uh uh charts that I'm
I'm I'm sure you've seen. And it's like
every time I look at them, I get I get a
bit frustrated of uh amounts spent in
the US on uh healthcare in total or on
education. And you see these charts that
have been going up every decade for the
past couple decades where we spend more
and more and a lot of people would say
that the outcomes are not necessarily
they're probably better, but they're not
not as much as you would expect given
the spending. And if you dig in a little
bit deeper, it's like where's all that
spending going? uh it's it's very
obvious that it's just being wasted on
administrative
BS and and things that don't move the
needle, right? Like it's not being spent
on more training for doctors or or or
the healthcare providers. It's not being
spent on uh more training for teachers
and and better better educational
outcomes. It's being spent on a lot of
bureaucracy and and and BS that doesn't
move the needle. And I think a lot of
that is is uh what we are trying at RAMP
very hard uh to reduce. we want to play
a big part in in uh accelerating that. I
>> I want to learn more about how you bake
this into the culture. Like it's it
seems like this is maybe the central
tenant of the RAMP culture. There's a
funny story I heard the other day or
another actually it's just literally
right over here. Another founder was
telling me about the experience of
selling his product to RAMP, which is a
customer now, and that the last thing
that happened was whoever was buying it,
it was some random person at RAMP, said,
"We'd like to do it, but we won't do it
until you've confirmed that you are a
Ramp customer for your business."
>> Yeah.
>> So, it seems like there's this like
there's this bite at the edge of the
spear at all parts of ramp. And
obviously, you're like hammering this
into people. How do you do that? like
describe the process of keeping the
culture focused on on that tenant.
>> What I like about this is is from the
very start at ramp we try to create a
culture where people have uh mutual
accountability to each other as opposed
to top down culture where you have
accountability to to your manager and
and people want to do well because their
their peers their colleagues and other
teams depend on them. So that creates
creates a culture where sales cares a
lot about product and product cares a
lot about sales and marketing cares
about finance and and and vice versa.
I'd say like that that's probably where
this comes from is like we all need to
be selling our products. We all need to
be making the customer experience
better. We all need to be uh say
advising our product builders on what
we're hearing from customers so that we
can take their feedback into
consideration. most important filter for
the interviews I I used to do early and
and still do to this day is like if this
person was starting a company and I was
looking to join a company, would I would
I join them or would I start a company
with that person if circum circumstances
were different? And like that that is
the the only bar like if I had to
summarize my my interview it would just
be that and that comes from like the the
ability to persevere in the face of
challenge and continuously solve hard
problems because at the end of the day
like a company is just a I don't know a
collection of people solving problems
together one after the next and they
keep getting more difficult and bigger
and uh the question is like how much can
you endure for for how long and the best
way to do that very well is to uh be on
that journey with uh people who are very
aligned, right? Like aligned on on the
values, the mission and like this is
that this is the the journey that
they're on. There are always going to be
more problems. The job is never going to
be done. Hopefully, we're enjoying
solving those problems together for a
very very very long time.
>> To rewind the clock a little bit, if if
we were writing the book uh Kareem's
entrepreneurial journey or something,
what what do you think would be like the
prologue? What would be the opening
scene? I mean, it would it would
certainly have to to start in in
Lebanon, in Beirut, which is where I
grew up. And I grew up in a very
interesting period of of Lebanon's
history because I I was uh born right at
the end of the civil war. And if you
rewind the clock a lot in Lebanon,
you'll see that it's it's always been
periods of uh peace followed by some
form of conflict and war. And I was like
born in in in ' 89, 90. And I spent the
first uh 16 17 years of my life um there
and it was a relatively calm period.
Always spurts of conflict but nothing
really major but you could tell uh
growing up there that a lot of uh um the
the previous generation was scarred from
the war and and uh everyone was kind of
living on edge. So, in other words, I'd
say a sense that things are very
ephemeral and could disappear very
quickly was was there in in the air for
my parents of uh um hey, you're going to
have to do the best you can so that you
maximize your chances of um getting out
of here and and uh getting into the best
school that you can so that you can get
a a visa and build a better life for
your yourself abroad is is very
important. So there was I was living
with that stress maybe hanging over my
head in a country that was constantly
exposed to all sorts of risks that I've
learned to live with um external risk uh
very well.
>> You're 16ish. Um maybe tell the first
story of kind of coming here, what you
were doing, who you met.
>> Uh you know I love your personal story.
So what happened when you're around 16,
15, 16? Even before coming, I would I
would trap myself in in libraries in in
Lebanon and just find like books and
magazines that I was interested in. And
I I still remember just opening up
science magazines in particular and just
looking at the latest advancements,
discoveries. Every time I'd look at a
new discovery that was made, it was
scientists at MIT or researchers at MIT.
And just the name like MIT just kept
coming up as a place where um a lot of
incredible uh engineering uh discoveries
were made and uh as a result I was just
like fascinated by by MIT as a school.
And then I I look around I guess my my
high school and there's one person a
couple years ahead of me who had gone to
study MIT. So I reached out to them and
asked them uh what is it what is it
like? what's a good way for me to uh I
guess expose myself to um type of work
being done at MIT? Do they offer any
summer science programs? And that's when
I hear about a a summer summer science
program that was hosted at MIT called uh
the research science institute RSI. So I
ended up uh looking into uh that program
and applying and coming uh two years or
a year and a half before college in 2006
uh to MIT for the research science
institute which was uh very
transformative transformative
experience. It was my first time in in
the US by uh by myself for an extended
period of time. I had come as a tourist
with my parents but that was that was I
think I'd come to Disneyland once. I was
on my own with another 60 70 or so
students all brilliant, incredibly
talented
and even before coming for uh the
program we had to pick what our uh
research uh subject or or topic would be
and I had picked computer science at the
time thinking that uh so great I'm going
to learn a lot more about it and it
turns out that the expectation was that
I would do computer science research and
not uh learn about computer science. Uh
so that's where I was like uh
essentially put under uh uh I guess a
lot of stress like great I not only need
to do some research but I know also need
to teach a lot uh teach myself a lot a
lot more in a very very short period of
time. Ended up working at this u small
uh startup off of uh Kendall subway stop
in Boston Kendall tea stop called
Virage. And at the time what Vrage was
was doing uh was buying
lots of
video news feeds from all over the
country. So they' buy like the news
feeds of the local ABC station in Texas,
right? Like all all over the US. So
they' buy all those TV news feeds, uh
convert the the speech to text, right?
and then convert and then classify the
text using uh markoff chains and a lot
of techniques that we're using are
essentially like the ancestors of uh
what um LLMs rely on right it's a lot of
the best technology available for doing
like natural language processing at the
time and my research project involved um
training these models that they were
using a lot more efficiently than than
they were so very interesting at the
time the technology was very nent. Uh
but it was a very uh uh cool experience.
I guess the the best part about it all
is the friends I I made uh along the
way. Some of my best friends to this to
this day I've met through RSI.
>> Maybe you can zoom forward to Parabus
starting Parabus like why you started it
and what the original idea was. It's
it's this interesting in the ramp story
that will be written about one day in
some book. It'll be a key chapter I
think because of the people that come
into your life working together with
them in a more formal capacity you know
for the first time the business lessons
that you're learning. So
>> my interest in Parabus is especially
like what are the key lessons that you
learned in that chapter?
>> Parabus was uh was an interesting one.
So I mean I started Parabus with uh
Eric. So same co-founder as as as RAMP
obviously and Eric and I at the time
were both fresh college graduates. uh in
New York, working at our first jobs,
both incredibly busy at work. We were
buying a lot of our supplies on Amazon
online. We were essentially doing a lot
of online shopping. And Eric notices
after
uh a trip that the price that he had
paid for uh a flight at a time was very
different from the price that someone
else paid. and he notices that there's
like a discrepancy in in in the way uh
items are priced online. And we were
very lucky in a sense because that was
around the same time that data science
was starting to become that function
that is very key for uh really everyone
but online retailers in in particular
were starting to employ uh data teams
and uh dynamically pricing their their
items to try and maximize the uh um the
the revenue. I was in consulting at a
time. A little discontent uh as well. I
guess that's maybe the recurring theme
is like I I kept feeling that we were uh
>> they were put Yeah. we were put on these
projects really smart, very ambitious
people to do a lot of manual work that
could be done a lot more efficiently
with software. And every time I would
try to suggest that we write a little
bit of software,
I would get uh maybe a nod and yeah,
that makes sense. But the incentive just
weren't aligned because the consulting
firms are pricing for a number of people
spending time on projects. So no one
really had the incentive to minimize the
time spent on projects and just maximize
the value. But even then like I found
myself writing quite a bit of of of
software during my consulting days which
is probably why the first version of
Parabus that we built was essentially me
writing uh like VBA macros
uh in Excel to track prices. Uh so the
very first version of Parabus was an
Excel spreadsheet that had a series a
set of SKUs and a job running in the
background that would check the price of
every single one of those items every
day on Amazon. And you could do this
with VBA, right? Like the programming
language really doesn't matter. Like you
can open a a web browser uh get to the
right page and pull the price and do it
in a loop. And that was the first
version of Parabus when we were trying
to figure out like is there a business
there? Are prices changing quickly
enough that there's enough money to be
saved for customers that there's a
business model there? And clearly there
was even in the first month that we were
tracking prices, we not only noticed
that yes, prices were changing, but the
rate at which those changes was
happening in that one month in 2014 was
increasing over the course of a month.
And that trend essentially never
stopped. So we quickly realized that
there was a business there. Prices were
changing incredibly quickly. And at the
same time, all online retailers had some
form of promise uh to their customers
that if prices were to drop and to
change uh there was a best price
guarantee or a price match guarantee.
And the reason they do this is because
they want to give their customers the
confidence to just
>> shop with them by default.
>> Exactly. Click that button. Just do it.
If something changes, we'll get it back
for you. But they're also banking on the
fact that no one really checks the
prices of the items they buy after they
bought them. With Parabus, we just
automated all of it. The idea was like,
well, all these retailers have armies of
data scientists working for them to
>> price discriminate
>> to price discriminate, and we're going
to build we're going to arm the rebels
essentially. We're going to build a
technology for consumers, the best
technology possible to try and
minimize the amount of uh pain in their
online shopping experience and maximize
the amount of revenue or the amount of
money that they can recoup after the
fact to by holding retailers accountable
uh to their guarantees. And we did that
incredibly effectively and it was very
popular as as you can imagine like if
you're a if you're a customer or a
consumer and you see a value prop of
click a button save money uh it's free
that's it's pretty great value prop. Uh
so it grew incredibly quickly. I think
we within the span of a year we were
like approaching a million uh users.
um is growing very fast and the
experience of building it was uh
incredibly challenging because unlike
ramp or unlike most tech companies, you
are building a product on top of a very
unpredictable foundation, right? like we
are building products on top of the
websites of retailers who one don't want
us there, two are changing their pages
all the time. Three are are heavily
incentivized to make it harder for us
over time. When we started building
Parabus around that time, Amazon still
used to send receipts. You used to get a
full itemized receipts receipt with the
price of every single item that you
bought. You don't anymore. you now get
uh you now get a link that says like,
"Thanks for shopping at Amazon. If you
would like to see your receipt, please
click here." And you have to go to
amazon.com, log in, press a couple
buttons, and eventually you make it to
your receipts. So, they made it harder
over time uh to get those receipts. I'm
pretty sure that we were running like
one of the largest scraping operations
in the US at the time going through uh
at some point like billions of emails
per day, tens of millions of receipts
per day.
>> And so what did that teach you? Like
what did building that both strengths
and weaknesses like things that you
would bring with you to ramp but also
things that you would leave behind?
>> I would say a lot of pragmatism in
engineering systems. there's this idea
that you're never going to really build
the the perfect system. So, you're
better off building something quickly
that will break in very predictable ways
and that you are able to recover from
incredibly quickly. So the idea with
parabus was uh things you start with the
assumption that things will break um and
that you are trying to speed up the
process of fixing them quickly when they
when they break as opposed to building
the the the system that will never
break. And it is very different from how
I'd say most experienced engineers learn
how to do engineering at uh larger
companies where you are trying to build
like a great system that will not break
and that will withstand the test of time
and and there's there's a beauty to that
as well but that's very different from
the way we build things at at Parabus.
So the the name of the game at Parabus
is build it very quickly and make sure
that it breaks predictably. And a lot of
these lessons we certainly brought with
us to uh ramp uh with some nuances
obviously uh I would say like the first
big split that we made at ramp and the
way we built product is there are parts
of ramp that we should build in a way
that they will never break and we got to
be very careful the way we built them
and experience in building those systems
is very valuable and there are other
parts of ramp where we need to iterate
very quickly assume that that it's going
to break very quickly. ly well that's
going to break but we need to improve uh
incredibly fast and we split the product
and engineering teams along that that
boundary relatively quickly. So anything
that touched money movement risk falls
in the category of you need to build it
right and make sure it doesn't break and
assume that you're not going to have to
uh innovate that much frankly on it.
It's like you just need to build that
system really well. And there are a lot
of parts of RAMP where we've innovated a
ton, right? Like uh pulling receipts
from a mailbox and trying to match them
as best you can to the right
transaction. It's like, well, if it
works, it's amazing. If it doesn't work,
it's whatever, right? Like no one's
going to feel it. No one's going to see
it. It's just that a receipt was a
match. That's fine. No other company is
able to match receipts nearly as good as
as as we are. So it's it's kind of okay
if you are let's say optimizing the any
form or experience on the website like
well the button is nonfunctional for a
couple minutes or the colors change or
the font is not correct. That's fine.
Someone will complain about it and
you'll fix it very quickly. It's okay.
And and to this day there are I mean I
would say like I don't know there are
little parts of RAM that are probably
breaking 10 times 10 times a day and
we're fixing them like 20 times a day
and no one's really noticing. And
especially early on I think uh when you
have um
customers that already perceive you as a
small startup and a small company and
may have some doubts about your
capabilities. Um, I often find it a much
better way to build credibility with
them and trust if things break and you
fix them very quickly as opposed to uh
if they just don't care and don't notice
anything about the product. So whenever
it's like one of my my favorite things
to do is just be uh very quick to
respond when a customer brings up
something that's broken or we notice uh
a subpar experience in the product and
we see it as a as a personal challenge
like how quickly can we notice and how
quickly you can we can fix it.
>> But I take that lesson away. It's sort
of in parts of the business when you're
building a product that have minimal
downside and and high upside you
actually want things to be breaking
otherwise you're not taking enough risk.
Is that the 100%.
Um I think it's very easy to fall into
the trap of well we want to make sure
that there are no bugs. It's like you
know what's one great way to make sure
that you have no bugs. Uh don't chip
anything. Don't write any code you will
have no bugs. Uh and that's the problem
with that approach. Uh so I think you
got to if you are solving for
um great outcome and great impact you
want things to be breaking. What was the
craziest moment in the history of
Parabus?
>> So there was a period of time, I think
it was like a couple weeks where we are
we were getting angry letters and cease
and desist from multiple retailers. were
getting these letters from
notorious like law firms that we had
heard of and we're a team of I don't
know like 12 13 uh engineers fresh out
of college and like trying to like
Google the name of the person sending us
a letter or the name of their firm like
oh my god this is like a multi,000
people law firm that represents like the
largest corporations and my hunch was
would be to like send them a a like I'm
sorry response and I'm like okay we
can't really do this. Like what do we
have to do here? And and the way we
responded to it is just trying to like
explain in very logical terms what we
were doing and why it was good for
consumers and why they should care. Uh
which was really funny. But one of those
uh one of those crazy experience was uh
we get a letter from Amazon around how
we were supposedly compromising the
security of the accounts of their users.
And I thought it was really funny at the
time because a lot of the product that
we had built was one on AWS and two with
the help of a lot of uh AWS architects
in order to make sure that it was built
as well as possible and as secure as
possible for the users. So our response
was like great like we'd be happy to get
on a call with your team that is helping
us build this in the most secure way
possible. And we got on a call with uh I
think it was like either Andy Jasse or
someone very senior on his team at the
time when he was uh uh running AWS to
just go through like our architecture
and how we were building this. It seemed
to me on the call that they were
actually very excited about what we're
building. I was like this is really
cool. We we like this. And uh we ended
up the call with like this understanding
that like AWS was actually kind of
really happy with us and that our
problem was with Amazon retail. Um but
yeah it it ended up getting resolved but
uh just as like a really tiny company uh
attacked by the legal teams of really
massive companies feels really really
scary at the time but uh in a way like
also validating. Is that helpful to be
scared early because then you just get
less scared each subsequent time that
there's something major breaking?
>> I I
>> Does it just not phase you anymore?
>> I guess we Yeah, we just uh I mean if
you solve really scary small problems,
the reward is scary bigger problems and
uh it never stops.
>> There's always this line people talk
about product market fit as like a
stage.
>> It seems like a more interesting stage
is when is the first time that someone
tries to kill you like the like the
story you just described. Do do you
agree with that? Like if you were
analyzing a company, like almost better
to invest right after someone's trying
to kill them and they survive.
>> Oh, 100%. People are going to try to if
you're doing anything that's correct or
right, people are going to try to kill
you multiple times.
>> What's the key to not being killed?
>> Perseverance to never give up to to some
extent. It's uh I never see the
possibility of us being killed as an
option to be honest with you. Like I'm
constantly looking for the multiple ways
that we can withstand a challenge and
and how we survive and I guess you could
uh I see the risk when that happens as
us endlessly talking about the options
and not maybe taking enough action. So,
I try to like get into uh gear really uh
quickly so that we could just start
acting on the ways that we will survive
and and and not get killed. Um so
there's always like there's when a
challenge happens, I guess I tend to
uh look through all the ways that we
succeed and and maximize the chances
that that we do. And I think the
companies that don't do that well tend
to
die because spend a lot of time thinking
and talking and not enough time doing as
opposed to because they don't see the
the options frankly.
>> What did you learn at the end of
Parabus' story? So you sold the business
to Capital One. Why did you sell it?
Like what what lessons learned in
selling a business when you made you
know you made good money doing it?
>> The Parabus story was very instrumental
in us wanting to start ramp to be to be
honest because well at the time that we
sold Parabis we weren't really looking
to sell the business. We were looking
for partners that would um help us grow,
right? And we thought about it in that
way. It's like, well, Parabus, we know
Parabus is really great. It drives a lot
of value to people who have shopped
online uh in very predictable ways. And
we're looking for partners who knew or
could help us figure out who shopped
online recently uh so that we can get in
front of them, make a compelling p
compelling pitch, and hopefully convert
them into a a user. And who better for
that than the credit card companies,
right? Like they know exactly who made a
purchase at Amazon or Walmart or Jet.com
at the time recently. And uh we got to
meet the team at Capital One and really
enjoyed working with them. I mean they
they're uh a lot more uh techsavvy than
than most of the other bank and that's
the reputation they have which is which
is great. And we were in partnership
conversations with them. Frankly, they
were interested in building
differentiations for the card product
because I mean at the time and frankly
to this day, a lot of the consumer card
products still fail uh like different uh
versions of the same product just
marketed differently. So they were
interested in different differentiating
uh through product and and partnerships
and we're interested in figuring out who
had uh recently purchased something at
at Amazon or Walmart. So we're in
partnership conversations with Capital
One and around the same time we're
getting all a lot of these like legal
challenges. It's clear that we needed
like more fire power whether in the form
of partnerships or in the form of of
capital just to withstand the the storm.
And quickly those partnership
conversations with Capital One turn into
acquisition conversations.
We get really interested because uh our
visions were clearly very aligned with
the Capital One team. They wanted to
give us the the capital, the support,
the funding to essentially turn the uh
antagonistic relationships with the
retailers into more friendly uh
relationships and they had a lot of
great relationships with those
retailers. So that that was very
interesting. But the most interesting
part about that like acquisition
conversations is we got to learn a lot
more about the credit card industry, how
it worked, where the revenue came from.
And it was fascinating to see that
product that you essentially in the card
business they essentially put in the
hand of customers. There's no uh
contract that anyone needs to sign. It's
like the more they use it, the more
revenue you make and you can just focus
on making the product as good as
possible so that they use it as much as
possible. And it was kind of refreshing.
It was like great. like you just put
this card in the hands of a person and
the more useful it is to them, the more
the more they use it and the more
revenue you make. So we started
understanding that fascinating business
model and it felt very powerful to at
Capital One combine that card with the
Parabus offering. Uh so it just felt
like a great natural fit. After spending
about two years at at Capital One and
growing the Parabus product which is now
called Capital One Shopping and includes
some some other features that I think
are very valuable. We started thinking
like what's what's next for us? Like
both Eric and I were clearly not done
with our uh entrepreneurial journey. We
wanted we wanted a bigger challenge and
a lot of the idea for ramp early on was
what if we frankly I mean it started
with what if we built parabus something
like parabus for businesses specifically
what if we built technology that help
businesses save as much money as
possible and that later turned into how
can we build technology that helps
businesses save as much time and money
as possible because businesses as we
both know tend to waste a lot more time
uh than they do money. Those are
generally interchangeable. Um, so we set
out to build ramp and just like it was
the case for Parabus, really the card
early on was a way to
know what businesses were spending time
and and money on, right? If you know
what tools they use and how uh how much
money they're spending on them, you get
a sense of like how the business
functions, what kind of business they
are, and you eventually get a sense of
where they are wasting both time and and
money and how you can help them save as
much of it as possible. Um, and this is
still true to this day about RAMP. I
think I'd say the biggest difference is
the scope of our ambition has gotten a
lot bigger. uh we're not only helping uh
businesses with the money and the the
time they spend on let's say like card
purchases uh but it's really like all
the spend that is happening across their
business and all the workflow associated
with it starting with procurement right
which you could describe as the
workflows that dictate how a business
makes decisions on what to buy and um
how to buy it how to negotiate for it
etc all the way to uh accounting for
those transactions and and reporting on
it. So the scope of our ambition has
gone from like the the mode of
transaction the card to all the
workflows happening before all the
workflows happening after and all the
time wasted as as that is happening.
>> So if I go back to like day one of ramp
and this notion that you need a way to
know what's being spent where and how
and why by whom.
>> Talk us through like the very first
version of the product. Like a dumb
investor at the time might have said,
"What the hell do we need another credit
card for?" Like lots of business credit
cards. And like MX had a great brand
just to pick one. There were more than
just MX. But people loved MX. Like it
had a pretty sterling brand. MX for
business was like a huge business. Like
why do I need another card? Bring us
into the room of you're talking about
what literally to take as the first step
and who to send it to and why and like
just like the first couple days are
always so interesting. Who raised money
from like how you figured that out? just
like, you know, the deep detail is so
fascinating.
>> I agree with you, right? Like they they
uh they still have a really good brand.
Uh but at the time like that that that
that's all they had. I mean that still
all they have is like they they have a
good brand and yeah, I guess you could
log in and check your statement but that
that's about it. Um and uh funny enough
like our pitch in the early days before
we had officially launched as we were
looking for uh design partners and
people to give us feedback on the
product was uh it wasn't like this is
amazing and going to change your life.
It was this is not worse than MX and you
might as well give it a try. Uh so it's
like it's a card it works. It does all
the things uh the MX card or any other
business card will do. Um and because we
have built maybe direct trust with you
like you better trust that we will make
it better for you over time, right? Uh
there's there was an element of like
>> well it was it was it was a terrible
pitch. Uh but we went and essentially
sold this to yeah friends and family
like people who trusted us not because
of the product we had built but just
because of their belief in our
capability to improve the product over
time. Right. So these were people that
we had gone uh through uh Y Combinator
with in in in 2015 with with Parabus.
These were I mean my brother who was
also starting his his company a lot of
our uh friends who were entrepreneurs in
in New York and in the startup ecosystem
in New York. Uh those were our early
customers. They were partners more than
they were customers frankly. They were
design partners. And the first version
of um I guess the first differentiation
we really built and we pulled from from
some of the skill set we had uh um
acquired at at Parabus was a very robust
integration with uh your email, right?
Like you make card transactions, a lot
of the receipts go to your email. Uh how
do we tie these two things together as
effectively as possible? And we are
really really good at uh parsing emails
while preserving the the the privacy of
uh I guess your your business emails,
right? So we were very good at we had
built some tech that were would identify
the emails that are very likely to be
receipts extracting those identifying
purchases and tying them to your cart
transaction. And that step alone
actually saves a lot of time from the
workflow of submitting expenses. It's
like you look at your statement, it's
like, "Oh man, where's the receipt for
that thing?" And we got very, very good
at mapping receipts in your inbox to the
transaction. The next step is we got
very, very good at essentially
transforming the merchant acceptor
identifier into a human readable text,
right? You often look at these credit
card statements like what is that thing?
Like it makes no sense. What is like
MCDX?
It's like, "Oh, that's a a McDonald's
identifier." It's like, "Okay, good."
Like, "Why don't we just call that thing
McDonald's?" So, we built the tech to
like clean up the merchant names. We
built the tech to map the uh receipts in
your inbox to receipts in your
statement. And then we just kept
improving the product one step at a time
and taking it further and further and
further. Uh but that was the very first
version of ramp. It's just like really
good mapping of receipts. I mean h how
we thought about investors I mean Eric
and I did not really want to raise at
the beginning is like well like part of
the reason we wanted to start ramp as
well was like what is I mean it's one of
those things that we could do because we
had the right to do because we were
second time founders we had some capital
set aside and uh building a business
like ramp required capital because you
need to fund the receivables of your
customers like great we have more
capital than we did As first- time
founders, we have more credibility. We
don't really need investors. The first
investor that we got in in uh connected
with was because uh I mean around that
time I was playing Fortnite with uh my
my brother and some of his friends and
turns out that there were a lot of uh
other founders and people in the startup
ecosystem that we were playing with and
uh and one of them was Dalian Esparro uh
at Founders Fund, right? and he was uh
I'm pretty sure on uh some sort of
garden leave cuz he had left uh Kla with
Keith Rub boy to uh and was about to
join Founders Fund and that was and I
was still at Capital One still thinking
about um ramp exactly how it was going
to look like and when we were going to
leave Capital One to to start the
company. And I remember telling Delian,
I was like, "Oh, I think I'm going to
stop playing Fortnite. I need to start
getting serious because uh um Eric and I
are are starting another company. And he
got very curious and he tells me that he
and Keith were about to or had just
started I think at at at Founders Fund
and they were um essentially uh looking
to fund an idea just like this one. And
I think he tells me something along the
oh I'm going to be in San Francisco next
week. Why don't you come and pitch us on
on ramp? I then uh call Eric. is like
what do you think? Should we do this?
Like we don't really need the investment
and both got really excited particularly
because Keith himself was was just a
legendary investor and had had a a
legendary run and was particularly
knowledgeable about that space, right?
Like he had helped start Square, was
early at PayPal. He was uniquely
positioned to understand exactly what we
were trying to do and we felt like he
would be the perfect investor for our
kind of business. We're interested to
talk to him more for the advice than the
money which is uh I guess the best way
to meet investors.
>> What have you learned about investors
since like Ram's been
>> I I would call it extremely successful
at raising capital but from the right
people like your cap table is extremely
impressive list of investors.
>> What how are you so good at it?
>> We don't think of investors very
differently than we think uh of our
employees, right? Like the difference is
you can't buy ramp stock on the open
market, right? You can be a private
investor in ramp or you can come work at
ramp and these are the two ways that you
are able to get ramp equity. Employees
invest their time and their effort and
investors invest their capital or their
piece capital. They're not that
different. And in the same way that we
like to select for employees who we
think bring something to the table and
can help us differentiate and push the
envelope further, that's how we think
about our investors as well. like we
think of it as a long-term partnership
and we think about what they can bring
to the table as well and it's very
different for every investor. Uh some
investors have uh expertise that they
can help us with and a lot of them have
uh um networks and great portfolio
companies that we think can be great
partners to us etc. Right? So we've
always thought of about it in a way like
very similarly that we think about
interviewing uh great great employees.
So you could bring the best person into
the company, but if you don't spend time
with them to onboard them and figure out
what you exactly want them to do and
what their skill set is and and empower
them to to do the best work that they
can, if you bring investors on on board
and not nurture that relationship and uh
actually get to know them better and
understand what they're really good at
and how they can help you, you're not
going to get a lot out of it. So, we do
spend a lot of time obsessing over how
to keep our investors aware of the
business, how it's going, what
challenges we're facing, and how they're
best positioned to help us. Uh we spend
a lot of time educating them about uh
the business and its challenges. And I
think it's a lot more powerful to do
that over a long period of time so that
they see the evolution as opposed to
just reach out to your investor once in
a while when you need something. It
seems like historically there's been
more demand for it than supply of it.
>> Yeah.
>> How how uh how much are you using that
to drive them helping you between rounds
in order to sort of like gain access to
future supply of ramp equity?
>> I realize that we're very lucky to be in
a position where like at almost every
round there was a lot more uh demand
from from investors than there was
supply. But like I I see also I see it
as a great opportunity to make sure that
a lot of investors that we're excited
about can often get maybe a starting uh
position in in ramp and and build up the
position that they're really excited to
get over over time. And we make that ve
very obvious, right? like it's it's uh
go into the relationship one step at a
time and a lot of investors get u some
allocation in one round and as we build
a relationship and uh they get more
excited about the business we get more
excited about working with them they
have an opportunity to invest in sub
subsequent rounds and there's been a
dynamic that uh really has started at
our seed round and still hasn't uh
hasn't ended right most of our investors
have I think might be all of them have
participated in in in in multiple
rounds.
>> What was the hardest round you ever
raced?
>> Might have been like 2022, right? Maybe
that round was like somewhere towards
the end of 22 or or 23 or something like
that. Not because it was hard to raise
the round. It was more because it was
hard for me to make peace with the fact
that maybe the the valuations had gone
down. But not so much that, but more of
a why the hell would be raised because
we don't really need the cash and the
valuations are done. So what the hell is
the point of that? It's hard to say
whether part of me thinks that like
yeah, I was wrong and part of me was
like I guess we we'll never know. But
the reason it was so interesting is
because when when things like that
happen especially in the private markets
uh a lot of external observers might
have the perception of like well like
the last mark that that company had was
at a time where valuations were not
really anchored in reality. So what
really is the mark today like no one
really knows. So it ends up creating
that like uncertainty for investors for
employees for everybody. And there's an
element of hey the valuation is what it
is. Who cares? Like the act of raising a
round only just makes it known. It
doesn't change anything about the
valuation. It's just like a price
discovery mechanism. So that round I
think of a lot more as like great like
let's just discover what the price
really is and where the market really is
so we could set a checkpoint and start
building from that checkpoint. In
retrospect, yeah, it was a hard round to
get aligned on like the the the need to
raise, but at the end of the day, like
we also saw it as like look, at the end
of the day, if we get great people on
board and great investors on board who
are excited about the the journey ahead
is like who really cares where the
checkpoint is. We've we're never really
trying to maximize like what the
valuation is at every single run. Like
that doesn't really matter. It's about
uh what the ultimate uh enterprise value
uh that we can create is. And like I
think that just comes from the sum total
of value we're creating for our
customers
>> to do that to create that enterprise
value. I'm coming back to this like
original sort of algorithm that you laid
out which is this neat model that if if
you do a better job and make a thing
easier to use they spend more and you
make more money. Exactly.
>> So like this incredibly highly aligned
thing. What were the next couple like
turns of that crank? So originally you
were really good at receipts and you
know something basic to save some time.
What's your memory of the earliest like
explosive moment of customer adoption
and what was going on? What were you
building? Like just give us the next
couple turns of that algorithm. Once we
got in then the algorithm became like
let's try to get our best estimate on
how much total
time is being wasted by customers and
get that time down as much as possible.
So we think a lot about the value that
we create for customers in terms of
minimizing time waste, right? So you
look at time and money wasted, right?
like money wasted on transactions that
shouldn't have happened, time wasted on
reviewing transactions or adding
information related to transactions so
they can be reviewed and you get the sum
total of that time and you start
building products that that minimize uh
the time spent, right? Can you predict
what that transaction was for instead of
asking the user for a um a memo? uh can
you get price benchmarks about what
products cost so that the person doing
procurement doesn't have to go spend a
lot of time doing research? Can you uh
extract the information from an invoice
that was received and account for it
properly so that you don't have to spend
a lot of time figuring out like what
accounting category does a transaction
fall into? And we kept like essentially
like mapping out the total amount of
time wasted in all parts of um uh
finance team that that we touched. And
we look at that as like the total
addressable uh market. And as we build
products, you get more adoption. You get
more customers excited to use more of
ramp and the total value that we deliver
for them is is higher. There were points
early on where you get customers that
just don't want to hear the pitch at
all. They're like, I'm really only
interested in the the card part. I'm
really only interested in cash back I'm
going to get and uh maybe the API that
you offer, right? Like I remember one
one early customer that I'm sure you're
familiar is that that familiar with that
that I sadly cannot mention in the uh
just broadly like um aerospace
engineering like famous for wanting to
build like a lot of their everything in
house a lot of their software in house
healthy skepticism of external vendors.
Well, they weren't going to build their
their card product, but as a result,
their perspective when they wanted to
use RAMP was like, we're really only
interested in the card, all the other
software we want to build ourselves.
It's like, great. They were excited that
we offered an API because they're like,
fantastic. We can plug into the card
that you've built and we can map it to
our internal ERP and extract all the
data we need and we'll build all the
software.
the first six months roll around is
like, "Oh, we really like what you built
there over the past couple months. We
want to try it." And they tried that.
It's like, "Oh, we really like what
you've built around uh like AP
automation. We really want to try it."
And before you know it, they're actually
trying more and more of the product,
driving a lot more value, and they're
very excited to roll it out not only to
more users in their business, but
frankly to more of the finance workflows
that they're experiencing. So um
that land and expand motion really
started to become real. I would say like
two and a half or 3 years into the
company where it was no longer like this
cool looking card with a nice UX that
integrated it with your receipts but we
actually were building AP automation
software, accounting automation
software, etc. How do you think about
the transition from a business that's
like a total payment volume business
where you're basically making more money
as more is spent on the cards
>> to something that looks more like a
blended TPV and SAS business? So like I
know your SAS revenue is is exploding
like
>> talk about that transition. Why why go
that direction? Why not just try to push
it all through TPV? It's a beautiful and
very simple business model to be able to
just like put the cards in the hands of
somebody and the way the more they use
it, the more revenue you get and you're
just um essentially focused on building
great software so that they're
incentivized to use it. We actually want
businesses to spend less, right? So
unlike most other card companies, we're
not here to uh put rewards in front of
them that will incentivize them to spend
more. Our view is build software that
helps them spend less and as a result
they'll use your card and you get more
share of wallet but they're they're
saving money.
>> They're saving money. Like the best ways
to help them save money is to help them
not make transactions that they should
have never made as opposed to giving
them points and rewards. And that's a
beautiful model. The limits of that
model though is that the amount of
money that businesses spend on card does
not scale does not scale linearly with
the complexity of that business. Um so
small businesses tend to run everything
through card. So it works well for small
businesses but like as you mature
uh the larger businesses tend to move a
lot more of their purchasing and
spending through essentially bill
payments and procurement systems and not
as much through through card. So if you
look at the if you like try to visualize
what does like card spend look at in a
business as a let's say on one dimension
you have card spend on the other
dimension you have either complexity of
the business or number of employees or
however you want to chart it starts to
like plateau at some point when you
really think about like what a real
skill is at ramp is like we're really
good at let's say reducing the
bureaucracy complexity time waste in a
system a company and building software
to do that and that has a lot of value
for really large businesses. So what
this means is our mechanism for
capturing value which is small
percentage of car transaction breaks for
large businesses
>> because we drive a lot of value for
them. We built a lot of great software
for them. Uh but we're not able to
capture any of that value for really
really large businesses because the our
our revenue uh mechanism is not scaling.
So that's when we like started thinking
about like okay great like what is the
right value capture mechanism when we
are really I mean our most of our
product and engineering teams are are
focused on on driving value for these
complex businesses and you're like well
like we need to be able to uh charge for
software and frankly like if we are
charging for software will also guide us
better towards the right things to do
right like you get a feedback signal
from the market that they're willing to
pay for certain products because they
get value from them from them. Um, and
that's when we decided to transition.
There was a lot of fear when we did, I'd
say, internally because you have this
like beautiful business model that's
working really well and everyone's a
little freaked out that it's like, well,
are are people going to be willing to
pay for it? Is it going to hurt our
conversion? Is it going to hurt our
growth? And it turns out that
not only did it not do that, in in many
ways it's accelerated that growth
because it's in incentivized our sales
team to mention those products, talk
about them and it incentivized our our
our customers to be a lot more uh
demanding and responsive and as a result
they helped us essentially guide our
roadmap a lot better than if the product
was free and no one cared about it. I
mean, a lot of our focus on our
engineering teams right now is on
continuing to build build these products
that drive
uh value for customers and capture value
through like yeah software uh software
pricing and and and software revenue.
And in many ways uh um I mean we're
still trying to figure out the right way
to monetize and price for some of the
agents that we're working working on and
and and building that drive more value.
Not I mean so how do you how do you I
mean I think a lot of companies are
really trying to figure out like how how
do you price for how do you charge for
work like how do you price for work and
you have a theory
>> you want to charge for complexity of the
task that the agent's been able to solve
and you're starting to see more and more
business models where you're essentially
charging for
the time that the agent is spending on a
task or the number of tokens that
they're using which is fine fine. I
worry a little bit about that model
sometimes incentivizing the the
engineering team to not be as efficient
as possible with their use of AI, right?
Like if you're a company charging for
how much time the agent is spending on
the task, like are you not incentivized
to just use lots of CPU cycles and not
make it super efficient? So, I worry
about that a lot. Um, that's why I don't
really love that model. Um, I'm not
quite sure exactly how it's going to
look like. I'd love to ask you about a
few of your kind of general views of
company building and the future. One of
them that you and I have talked about
before is this view that a lot of the
best company builders will be very
technical in this era.
>> Yeah.
>> Say say more about that. I think we're
at a interesting
junction right now. And the best I guess
analogy that I can give is
if you uh I mean the Ford one where like
if you had asked people uh before cars
what they wanted, they would have said
faster horses.
And we're probably at the juncture right
now where you ask customers what they
want from your products and they'll say
like, "Oh, I want an additional widget
here and an additional button there."
And they don't realize that like the the
car to their faster horse is possible.
And
we as a company should be like obsessing
over like what what do customers really
want? was like, well, they want to get
from point A to point B and what is the
best way to get them there? It's like,
well, it's to build a car for them. And
if you ask the question is like, who
even realizes that that car is something
that is possible and what it might look
like? It's like, well, the people who
came up with the technology for what and
how an engine functions and what it's
capable of doing and what is possible.
And these tend to be like more technical
people in in general, right? So I think
the technical folks are more likely to
see the possibilities in terms of
product uh than than non-technical
folks. So as a result I think
particularly right now technical folks
can be very impactful in other
disciplines because they see the
possibilities better than um other
experts might. And the other side of it
is the gap between not having subject
matter expertise in a domain like in say
in I don't know marketing or healthcare
or education and having it is the
smallest it's ever been. Right? The only
thing stopping you from getting that
knowledge is your ability uh to learn
and to ask the right questions of an LLM
that can help you become an expert a lot
quicker than you would otherwise be. I I
like to joke now that I'm a I'm a better
doctor uh than I've ever been, but I'm
not a doctor. I'm a better lawyer than
I've ever been, but I'm not a lawyer.
And in practice, that means that when
I'm having conversation with my doctor,
I'm a lot more knowledgeable and I know
to ask the right questions. When I'm
having a conversations with a lawyer,
they're a lot more efficient and I'm
asking the right questions. And as a
result, I think like engineers that know
what is possible can help us build um
the the the future of uh our our product
much better for for our customers even
though they are have not done
procurement before, they have not done
AP before, they have not done accounting
before, etc.
>> You you've extended that even to
marketing. Could you maybe tell this
story? So rewind time. I don't know, a
year and a half or two years ago or
something, you and I were talking about
this and you decided to go take over
marketing as the CTO and you've had this
experience since which I find really
interesting of what it's like to bring
an engineer and an engineering team to a
problem without domain expertise in the
same way you're just describing. What
did you do and like yeah, walk us
through that because it feels like that
playbook might be usable by others in
different parts of their business. The
funny thing about that is I think that
was a time where all the lagging
indicators were going extremely well.
Like a lot of people were asking me at
the time like wait what why
what do you think has is broken? I mean
things seem to be doing going quite well
like there's no need for a change there.
And I was looking at the early leading
indicators
and starting to see see things like well
we've made our conversion really good
right like uh a lot of in a lot of
segments we were converting at more than
50%. Right? That meant that if a
customer had a conversation with a
salesperson, there was a 50 plus% chance
that they will be a customer within 30
to 60 days, which is incredible. And
you're like, okay, conversion is getting
really good. We've gotten better at
monetization,
but conversion can't get better than
100%. There's some kind of upward limit.
There's some kind of upward limit to
monetization as well, like some
percentage of the value that we're
driving. Okay, the upward limit to like
how big our TAM is is a lot further
because we're still to this day like sub
2% of corporate card alone and it just
felt like we were starting to slow down
maybe a little bit in our ability to
generate leads. And while these two
other things in terms of conversion and
monetization were going really really
well, there's an upward limit to them.
And if we didn't figure out how to like
reacelerate our ability to generate
leads, we would be in trouble today,
right? So that that was a year a year
and a half ago and I started obsessing
over that problem and I guess I turned
to maybe some some sense of paranoia
when everyone else around me feels like
things are going great. It's like okay,
what is the problem? And for me at the
time that was the problem uh how do we
how do we make that better? And really I
I'd say like around that time there was
maybe an attitude of in that in in
marketing broadly of like we would try
things and if they didn't work we would
maybe assume that I was like well those
things don't really work for us as
opposed to no they have to work we just
haven't figured out how to make them
work.
>> What's an example of that?
>> So let's say we would try to I don't
know run uh an ad on a podcast and it
doesn't work. We're like, "Well,
podcasting doesn't work for us." And my
my attitude would be is like, "No, you
picked the wrong person to partner with
or you picked the wrong format of an
ad." Like, why is the thing broken? It's
not that the thing doesn't work. It's
you haven't figured out how to make it
work. It's like clearly like all these
forms of advertising do work, otherwise
other good companies wouldn't be doing
it. We just need to figure out what
works for us and how to make it work for
us. That was like the lens that we
brought to everything, right? like
direct like I don't know direct mail
paid advertising uh brand advertising uh
all all the different things in
marketing product marketing and how we
uh launch products so I I went into it
with the attitude of all right we're
going to fix the experimentation
mechanism and the system through which
we do work and in many ways like apply
the Elon algorithm to it in a lot of
parts of marketing uh you need to work
with uh you'll need to work with the
brand team to say generate an image or
an asset whether it's for a product
launch or an ad. It's like you want a an
image, an asset, some copy and you as
part of marketing, you tend to work with
the the brand team on those. It's like
the way it used to run before is for
every single piece of content that you
wanted to generate, you had to write a
brief. So you would write a brief to
explain to the brand team what you're
trying to do. That brief would get
reviewed by the brand team about once a
week. The brand team would decide who to
assign to it based on skill set and then
you would get some output two weeks
later or maybe a week later. So that
meant that no matter what you wanted to
do in marketing, if you're working with
a brand team, it would at the very least
take about two weeks,
which is kind of crazy. Like what if you
need to work on something that uh I
don't know should take 10 minutes or 20
minutes. Doesn't matter. it'll take two
weeks for it to be in front of somebody
and then they'll do the work for 10
minutes. And with that kind of clock
speed,
uh it's impossible to get anything done.
And while a lot of people would have
gone into marketing with like okay great
like the way to fix this is like let's I
don't know like come up with a better
campaign idea. I went into it with the
like, okay, let's just like look at the
actual system that generates work and
focus on how we can make that system as
efficient as possible. I didn't go into
it with like, oh, I have better creative
ideas than the people on those teams cuz
we have amazing people. I just want to
put their ideas in front of the world as
quickly and as efficiently as possible.
That's what I'm focused on. Uh, we have
great creative people. they'll still
come up with the ideas, but when they
have an idea and they want to put it in
front of someone, I wanted to take I
wanted to take 10 minutes, not two
weeks. And if we do that, we can take a
lot more shots on goal. We could take a
lot more risk with the things that we do
because we know that if it doesn't work
out, we could try something else
tomorrow. Um, and that's really the type
of attitude that we went uh into it
with. And uh I think that that's that's
helped us a ton. Actually, I have
another example that that that I love,
right? You could think about u uh
billboard advertising, right? If you
want to put a billboard in New York,
let's say it cost you $100,000. The
funny thing with billboards is uh you
don't really get that much economy of
scale, right? Like if you want to put
another billboard, it cost you $200,000.
You want to put three billboards at
$300,000. But if you want to change a
billboard that you've already bought, it
only costs you $1,000. So that means
that if you're have one billboard in
Union Square and you want to change it
tomorrow, that cost you another $1,000.
You want to change it after tomorrow,
that's another $1,000. So you can
essentially have a billboard in Union
Square that changes seven times in a
week and that's $107,000. Or you can
have two static billboards for $200,000.
I would argue that like one billboard
changing seven times in a week is a much
more powerful way to like drive a
message and get a story out than two
billboards.
uh and it's a lot cheaper. Uh so a lot
of the attitude that we brought in is
like how can we find like these these
hacks and ways to get more out of the
systems that exist where like the the
creative is not really changing. I'm not
trying to influence that but like the
system through which we are doing
marketing work is a lot more inquisitive
and experimentation driven.
>> I love that one side of the system is
getting more uh at bats let's call it.
Yeah,
>> the other side of the system is like
what's where are you getting hits? That
feels also very complicated, especially
when it's, you know, like we've talked
about this just to break the fourth wall
like Ramp's our biggest sponsor, Senra's
biggest sponsor. We've worked together
very closely.
>> Typically what we found in podcast is
like the values, you just hear the name
four million times and then like
eventually you want to you need to solve
the problem. You're like, "Oh yeah,
ramp." Um, that's that feels harder to
measure than, you know, a a you know, an
ad in Facebook or something where it's
incredibly tight the feedback loop.
You're you're an engineer. Like I I know
you like tight feedback loops. How do
you balance stuff that's harder to
measure and assign value to it? Like you
could either figure out what the exact
value is or you could think about it
comparatively, right? So, the way we've
thought about it in in uh working with
you, which has been um amazing, versus
let's say working with another random
podcast is like I I listen to your
podcast a lot. I love it. I think a lot
of people uh like me listen to your
podcast. I think uh a lot of our
audience is is people like me who are
building businesses and obsessing over
businesses and it's like the if I if we
decided that we wanted to work with
podcasters, right? like who are the best
in the world that we can work with that
have the right audience for us and and
and that's that's the lens right it it's
it's more about targeting the right
audience than it is let's say a higher
level metric like how many clicks am I
getting or how many views am I getting
it's about getting the right views and
that's the way to to to to think about
it for us
>> so so if if you were to step back and
describe once more like holistically the
system that you installed how would you
describe it like if it had if if there
was like a diagram of the system that
you came and installed in marketing to
do everything you just described, what
does the diagram look like?
>> It's more about I think principles,
right? It it's a fast iteration cycles.
Uh it's scientific where there's
experimentation and and feedback loop.
It's it's like let the person who came
up with the let's say creative idea be
accountable to that idea. It's not done
by committee. You don't get to ask 10
people what they think and come up with
a watered down idea. You just do it. And
if you do it well, you get credit for
it. If you if you don't do it well
enough times, eventually you will no
longer be at the company. Like that
needs to be known. Like that that's uh
people have more skin in the game uh
when they're making those decisions. And
making sure that the tools that that
team has access to are not getting in
the way, but are empowering you. We make
a lot more use of AI tooling now in
marketing than we used to. And today if
you want to uh put together uh an
article on RAMP and you are let's say uh
um on the on the SEO team or on the
content marketing team and you want to
generate an image for that article. uh
we have a like tool that was built
internally that allows you to generate a
image that is on brand uh within
seconds. So it's quick experimentation,
accountability with uh the person coming
up with the creative uh and tools that
don't get in the way but allow you to
get your work very quickly with as
little dependency as possible
>> through this process. I love the
billboard example. So, I'm curious like
what the next three are like that is
what are the most surprising like things
you discovered about different channels
or different ways of doing things.
Anything else come to mind from the year
of marketing adventure?
>> Yeah. I mean there there are things that
have always been true let's say in in
paid marketing or what happens in social
media is like you get a lot of these uh
concepts and and patterns that work
incredibly effectively in paid
advertising for a very short period of
time and stop working. So it's very
important to like always be at the
forefront of what is happening there and
why it's working until it until the all
the alpha starts being taken away and it
stops working. And I'll give you
actually an example from the the Parabus
days because I don't want to give away
all our secret sauce either because I
think that wasn't like a very powerful
one. But when Facebook introduced uh
video ads in the news feed, I think in
2014 or 15, like that was a new thing at
a at a time. When they first introduced
it, you used to scroll through your
newsfeed and the videos would just like
play immediately with the sound. And
people were really annoyed and I guess
bothered. And Facebook then decided to
make those uh video ads not play the
sound by default. And when that
happened, effectiveness of video ads on
Facebook dropped drastically.
So they got cheaper as a result. But the
videos that became really effective were
the ones where uh you could tell what
was happening essentially without the
sound, right? Like so one of our most
effective video ads at Parabus, we ran
like very early when that was starting
to happen, when Facebook had made that
change, where Eric and I were dressed in
banana costumes holding signs with text
on them, right? And it's like it's it's
a great silent video because you look at
that image, it's like, what are these
people doing dressed in banana costumes?
and like you're holding signs with text
on them so you can actually tell what's
happening without um having to listen
because you can read. And that ad became
very effective and it worked very very
well for three or four months and then
it stopped working. And that is very
true in like online advertising. It's
moving so quickly and the platforms that
you're um doing ads on top of are
changing so quickly. So like being at
the forefront of like what's happening
and like how you can get alpha is is
super important. So um we want to hire
people who are yeah like obsessed aware
of the changes happening with those
systems etc. That's also true in like
SEO right like Google every once in a
while will publish articles about how
they're changing the way that they
prioritize SEO to say for example uh
reward
websites that load incredibly fast or
reward websites that are very mobile
friendly and they do that every couple
of months. So being aware of what's
what's happening and moving very
quickly, super important. Speed super
important.
>> So this is happening everywhere, right?
Like there's so much vying for our
attention that I'm really curious what
you've learned about getting people's
attention in the like what things what
are the principles of getting attention.
Like something that comes to mind is um
our friend Scott Woo at Cognition and
his team did this amazing launch video
when when Cognition first came out and
there really weren't many launch videos
at the time. And so everyone watched it
and had this incredible reach. Now like
literally anything that gets $10,000 of
funding has a launch video. And so
there's 10 million of them and as a
result like I personally literally do
not watch a single one no matter how big
the company is because it's just like
this sea of slop of launch videos. And
so I I just don't care anymore. So I'm
curious what what you've learned about
the principles for getting attention in
the first place.
>> It's funny. I was relisting to one of
Senra's episodes on on on Dyson
recently. Again, I mean, a lot of the
same principles we try to apply for this
in the way that Dyson ran his business,
which is like seeking differentiation
for differentiation's sake. It's like we
are always looking for ways to be
different. uh and the very first way in
which we've done that really well and a
lot of credit goes to uh Diego and our
team who who runs the design team and
and how they think about design. Um the
very early days we were thinking about
like what the right color for RAM should
be,
>> right? And we're working with um brand
partners on it and I remember like this
this color wheel that you look at,
right? And you see like all these
companies that we aspire to be like and
where they are on the color wheel and
all the finance related apps are like
somewhere in the blue blue or green,
right? It's like green for money, blue
is trust. And there's no one in yellow.
Like the the only thing in yellow was
Snapchat, right? Consumer company
Snapchat. And the primary reason why we
chose the yellow was because it was
different. That's it. You could have
argued at the time and certainly some
some people did that like oh well if you
go yellow you're not going to get
anyone's trust and you want to start
with things that they associate it was
like no like we are going to change that
we're going to be different and if we do
that really well it's going to pay
dividends for a very long time and I
think it does like you see you see a
very yellow ad or or bus it's like you
assume it's ramp right like that is what
brand is ultimately when when you think
about like what is brand is like well if
you're watching a movie and you see a
red can in the distance. You might not
be able to read Coca-Cola, but you know
it's a Coca-Cola can. That's very very
powerful. So I think one way to grab
attention is to uh seek differentiation
and with enough repetition eventually
you're like well okay I see the pattern
here.
>> You're a man attracted to extremes and
differentiation. Talk about that same
concept in recruiting and and recruiting
for what you would call spikiness. Yeah,
>> I
love this framework of hiring for for
for slope and for spikiness as opposed
to
um let's say people who check the box on
10 different things. Um and we've
applied that since very very early. I
mean, even at Parabis, like I remember
one of the the early things at at
Parabus was like, well, we're a small
company with very limited resources
competing for talent with the Facebooks
and Googles of the world. It's like we
can pay them less money. We have less of
a brand. We have probably less in many
ways like less less large scale problems
to to work on. It's like how do we
really differentiate? And there were a
couple things like one is like well I'm
going to look for very spiky people in
areas where I have asymmetric
information. We were recent college
graduates in some way we knew uh a lot
about the people who had gone to the
school that we had gone to or the
schools that we had experience with. So
namely I guess Harvard and MIT for um
Eric and I. And not only that we knew
about a lot of the hardest classes to
that that students were taking. So we
could go and look at like let's say a
a freshman in college and the classes
they're taking and the level of extreme
talent in in one area and recognize that
very quickly. So it was less about like
what is your I don't know your total GPA
and your total sum of experiences and
start and and other interviews you've
done throughout your four years in
college. But like I know that like in
year one of school if you're taking that
class and got a really good grade in
that one class it must mean that you are
I don't know like extremely talented at
math or computer science or whatever it
is. So we're looking for these spikes
like very rarely. So there's a a couple
ways that we're looking for extremes
like we're we're we're looking for
freshmen where other companies were
trying to hire juniors. We're looking
for people who had maybe taken and
excelled in very uh specific classes.
And in my case, like having gone to
frankly to to RSI and knowing how hard
it was to get into RSI and the level of
talent at RSI, I was looking for seeking
programs like it that gave you an early
signal that someone was very spiky even
before college in many ways. And people
we hired very early on at RAMP was uh I
mean was Calvin Calvin Lee who uh we had
uh had interned with us at Parabus in
January for one month like not a lot of
companies offer one-month internships.
had less than like one year in college,
but clearly even then like looked
incredibly spiky, right? Like he had
left high school early uh to uh prepare
for the informatics olympiad. Uh he
ended up finishing college in in 2 and
1/2 years. I mean, we met Calvin very
early on and built a very strong
relationship. So by the by the time that
he was graduating, uh we were actually
starting RAMP and he was one of our uh
very first hires and and to this day
like Calvin I think has his hands in so
many different things at at RAMP and has
gone from being an engineer to being on
the sales team for a bit to running our
forward deployed engineering
organization. And while he's incredibly
spiky, turned out to be uh also very
versatile uh in in the company and one
of my uh favorite people to to to work
with. That pattern certainly extended to
a lot of the the ways we've done like
recruiting early on. Like I I like to
when I look at someone's resume, uh I'm
not try I don't have like a checklist of
10 things I'm trying to to to check the
box on. I'm generally looking for what
they're telling me in their resume.
they're really good at uh brushing up on
that topic. If this is a topic that I'm
not an expert on and interviewing them
specifically on that one topic, like
you're telling me you're great at
something, I'm going to see how great
you actually are. And you better be a
lot more knowledgeable about it than me
after doing a couple hours of of
research. And I get two very strong
signals from this. It's like, well, how
good of a judge are you on on on how
good you are at that actual thing? Uh,
okay. you're saying you're great at like
I don't know uh poker for example uh are
you a great poker player like how good
are are you actually are like are you a
good judge of yourself or you are are
you aware of uh it's like the the
spectrum of talent in in that field and
and two like like how far have you been
able to take that thing I'm a lot more
interested in in essentially assembling
the Avengers at at the company where
everyone has like a clear superpower
than a lot of people who just check the
box on 10 things. It's like if you're
looking the more things you are looking
to vet someone on the more likely you
are to get uh average people
essentially.
>> Another thing that you you and I have
talked a lot about is that speed just
pure raw speed which which has been a
theme of our conversation today
>> is probably the most important thing
especially for young companies. Maybe
you develop more structural visa- like
moes, you know, over time. Um, but to to
earn that right, you just need to go
ridiculously fast in the early days and
iterate really fast in all the ways that
you're describing. If you were giving
advice to companies on think practical
tactical things they can do to make
their business go faster, what what are
your favorite things?
>> I mean, you want to shorten the cycle as
much as possible between idea and
putting the thing in front of a
customer. And the way to do that, I
mean, there's just so many ways to do
that. Like, you could simply just focus
on like, great, like, I'm writing code.
How long does it take to get to
production? And then within that,
there's like, well, how fast do your
test run? Like, how quickly can you
actually deploy, etc. I'll I'll share a
story on that, which is quite funny.
It's like the the first time we hired a
a product manager at RAMP was it's like
our our head of product today, uh, Jeff.
He's like he came into the organization.
and he had some experience being a PM at
another organization and he looks at the
way we are uh prioritizing work and and
cutting up chunks of work and he's a
little bit appalled that we are not uh
sizing the different um
levels of effort for the different tasks
like a lot of company will do this oh
there are 10 things we want to do like
this one is like five points and we'll
take five hours and this one is one
point and we'll take one hour and
whatever and it's like freaking out that
we have like no sense of or like we're
not really measuring how long we think
things will take.
And he's trying to introduce that and I
get like freaked out. I like why are you
doing this, Jeff? He's like, well, cuz
so that we can know how fast we're we're
we're actually moving. I was like, wait,
like you don't think we're moving fast
enough? He's like, no, no, I think we're
moving incredibly fast. Like faster than
any place I've seen. Uh but like I just
want to like measure it. And I believe
that there's a little bit of a
Shreddinger's principle. uh there where
it's like you can get a lot of precision
on how long things take or you could do
them a lot f you could do them very
fast. It's hard to get both cuz if you
start to put a lot of importance on like
measuring uh in advance how long you
think things will take and estimating
them very Exactly. Right. It's like you
end up uh rewarding and punishing people
who make the right estimates. So you
incentivize like estimates that are
longer than they should take so that
they can hit those estimates. So it's
like a very simple tactical thing that
that you could do but it's hard because
you need like a natural ability to
understand like how quickly it is to
actually develop things and it's hard to
do that without expertise in the thing
that you're building. So like it it's
it's hard for non-engineers to know how
long an engineering task can take if
you're really good at it. It's hard for
designers to know how long a a design
task should take etc. So um it's like
not following a lot of the processes
that other company follow because uh
very often process gets in the way. I
think process like best practice process
are a good way to like move you to
average on a on a in a discipline if you
feel like you're below average. But
often some of the people who are like
most extreme on how fast I move or on
any dimension that you're trying to
measure tend to do things u in a very
odd nonstandard way.
>> What's your commentary on the sort of
like base level players and
infrastructure in and around this
business where you know people have
talked about Visa and Mastercard as like
you know the best business model of all
time or something like this. the
introduction of stable coins and you
know what Stripe's doing there um things
that Visa or Mastercard might be trying
to do themselves. What are the
interesting like shifting sands to you
that might affect how
>> that has chang how you build the
business? What opportunities might
become opportunities that haven't been
in a long time? Like the worst idea you
could have had for the last 50 years is
try to beat Visa at its own game. Like
it's network effects too strong. What
shifting sands loosen some opportunity
in your perspective?
That's an interesting one. So I think a
big misconception is that the reason
payments are maybe more expensive than
some merchants would like them to be
online is because Visa takes such a big
cut. Uh that's not true at all. One of
the reasons that maybe payments, card
payments might be a little bit more
expensive for merchants in in in the US
is a lot of that expense comes in the
form of rewards for consumers and
American consumers are very very
attached to their uh rewards. Uh it's
going to be interesting to see in what
areas people are willing to give up any
of their rewards
um in order to I don't know maybe get um
a differentiated
experience in in some way and the
merchants get like uh cheaper payments.
Uh, but the the stable coin promise as
it stands today for merchants is one
where payments are maybe faster and
cheaper, but it's still not very clear
what it is for consumers or the people
paying, right? Because at the end of the
day, like if you want to buy something,
you just care about the price and how
quickly it's going to ship to you and
the quality and things like that. Like,
do you really care how you're paying or
like what is happening behind the
scenes? Like, not really. In a way, I
think a lot of the shifting sense around
like what is the underlying technology
through which money is moving, I'd say
like that's very irre irrelevant to the
people making payments. But what may
become interesting is if you believe in
a world where the individuals themselves
are less involved in making the payments
and you have agents doing that on your
on on on their behalf, it's okay like
help me buy that thing. uh while those
those agents might not
care about rewards as much as you do or
they may help you make uh more optimal
decisions. You could see a world where
like
agents are deciding to optimize the
rails and pick different ways ba based
on some u different
uh maximization function that that
that's not related to reward. So in in
in other words like if the decision
makers are shifting the path that they
take to make the payment might might
might shift. So, uh, it is interesting.
I mean, stable coins are are are
certainly a very, uh, interesting. I
mean, it's kind of crazy that payments
cannot like today payments cannot settle
on a weekend or outside of business
hours in certain cases. Like there's no
reason why like payments shouldn't be
settling like live 24/7 all the time and
and be very cheap. Um, so I think that
will change. But to be honest, like from
our perspective at at RAMP, like we are
in the business of optimizing and
speeding up the workflows of our
customers and I in many ways like I
couldn't care less whether that runs on
>> Yeah.
>> TAC rails or the card rails or the
stable coin.
>> You'll be the beneficiary of whatever
positive change.
>> Exactly. It's exciting.
>> If I think about we're f let's say we
did this again in five years. We have a
every 5year tradition and at that next
increment we have the benefit of telling
the most exciting possible version of
the story that happened between now
between 2025 and 2030. What do you think
that looks like for ramp?
>> Yeah, I mean it's going to be a a pretty
funny one, but like my my hope is that
people don't have to uh log into ramp at
all basically is the way to think about
it. Uh it's like we've if you really
obsess over minimizing the the amount of
time that things take and today you're
having to like log in to ramp and it's
taking 5 seconds and then it'll take
four and then eventually it'll take zero
and you have a lot of your finances that
are essentially self-driving. Like one
of the analogies I like is a bit of like
what what's happening with cars, right?
like you've gone from very mechanical
cars where you have like to to do
everything and fix everything and and
then you have uh things like I don't
know like lane assist and park assist
and like early signs that like the car
can assist you and do a little bit more
and like we're getting very close to you
could just like I mean with the whimos
like you could just sit in the back and
press a button and you go from point A
to point B. Uh I think something very
similar is happening in many areas of of
business and the one we're focused on is
all the workflows and decisions that
happen um before money is moved after
money is moved and how you optimize
these decisions over time. Like there's
this like endless cycle and loop between
like you spend on something, something
happens in your business, it's good,
great, you you know do more of it, it's
bad, well maybe you should minimize
that. So you end up having that like
infinite cycle of making just better
decisions with uh your your your money
and not wasting a lot of time in in
bureaucracy. So I would love ramp to be
as self-driving as possible and for
people not to have to log into ramp at
all for that vision to come to reality.
is most of it the infusion I'll call it
of intelligence you know AI basically
building the the chain as you've
described doing so many times like as an
engineer uh you're always thinking in
terms of like what are the increments
here and then just attacking each one
with intelligence for lack of a better
term I think that's right I would also
add that that there are like indirect
benefits of the models getting better
that we benefit from ourselves as well
and the accumulation of just like more
artifacts and and data about how
customers are are using our our product
every day and for what reasons. Uh this
allows us to like infer a lot of what
their intent is from like their actions
and the way they decide to fill forms
and what they approve and not approve.
So it's like the more our customers are
are using the the product and deriving
positive outcomes, the more we can
learn. And as those models get better
about reasoning over like more complex
tasks like we benefit from it either uh
it's a very uh very exciting place to be
in.
>> Can you tell the story about constraints
that led you to become a good manager?
>> Oh god. Yeah. There there there were
some funny ones but the the most uh on
on then nose one was like the one of the
early days of of
Parabus. Um, Eric and I were I mean
really the only two people working on on
Parabus and Eric while having studied a
little bit of computer science wasn't
really a software engineer himself. So
100% of the uh engineering capability of
the company was just me and then I I go
on a random uh skiing trip one day and
and uh uh due to unfortunate
circumstances come back with a broken
arm. And I remember Eric looking at me
and having that reaction like, "Oh,
great." Like we're now. Like what
what the hell are we going to do? And
luckily like we had started working with
um a few uh junior engineers around that
that time. and and like that was like
the first time that I was kind of forced
to uh try to get better at at uh maybe
delegating, managing, explaining
concepts, explaining architecture and
focusing a bit less about the direct
output, a bit a bit less on the direct
output that I can have myself and
focusing a little bit more about how I
can maximize the sum total of the output
of of the team as a whole. Uh, and it
was very constraining to do that without
uh an arm. It's like I'm I'm trying to
type as much as I can with my left arm,
but I need to be as like uh specific as
I can with as few words as as possible
and drawing diagrams and and and writing
down some concepts. So, that was a very
funny experience where I had to yeah
very uh quickly figure out how to
delegate. Will back to our uh our book
on the the story of Kareem's
entrepreneurship journey. You know,
we're just at a mile marker now. It's,
you know, only you're only 6 years into
RAM, which is kind of crazy to imagine
how fast you guys have scaled. But if I
think back, maybe I'll go all the way
back to the start of Parabus and
encompass the entirety of company
building that you've had so far. So, a
bit longer. How have your views on
company building, leadership, management
most changed across that period of time?
I used to go into challenges with the
assumption assumption that the
reward there was a reward at the end and
that the reward would feel great and
that was the kind of in intent and and
goal and I think the more challenges
we've gone through and conquering or or
surpassing the more I I realized that uh
the reward is is just the the journey to
be honest. So, it's made me a lot more
intentional about uh doing the things
that will help me enjoy uh the the the
journey over time um and enjoy all the
challenges that come along the way
because the reward for solving
challenges is just more complicated uh
challenges over time. So, you might as
well just uh put yourself in a position
where you are uh enjoying these
challenges as much as possible. And for
me in particular, I think that has to do
with uh more than anything else uh the
people I'm doing it with. Still meet a
lot of uh young very talented uh
designers, engineers, builders in
general. And like they always have like
different answers to questions like what
are you excited about, what you want to
do? And like there's some people who
really talk about the complexity of the
technical challenge and some that talk
about the like the the the mission
itself. And and there are like different
ways to answer that that question, but
the one for me that I just continue to
go back to is is really about the people
that I I I work with. And I feel very
lucky that RAMP is like such a
multiaceted company in in some ways
where uh we have to not only be really
good at the engineering parts of it but
also the design parts of it and the
marketing and the sales and the risk and
capital markets and fundraising and and
you get to work as a result with uh very
spiky people in very different areas
that are brilliant that I love uh
learning from consistently. I want to
put together like great teams, solve
that challenge and win and more uh the
team that will help us consistently win
forever because I I would like to build
something that that uh uh hopefully out
outlives us.
>> Last two questions for you. The first is
um what are you most proud of at RAMP
and what are you most embarrassed about?
I mean proud of is uh I think the
caliber of people we've we've been able
to attract and the sum total of not just
RAMP but I think like the the great
companies that will come out of of RAMP
and the diaspora of of uh amazing people
who have spent some time at RAMP and in
some cases have decided to go on to to
start other companies. I mean, I still
tell people who join us that I would
love for RAMP to be the last job that
they ever have to apply for.
>> Uh, and that's been that's been very
true for a lot of people. And that can
mean a lot of things, right? Like that
can mean that uh people left and right
will just try to approach them because
they've been at RAMP. And um I think
that's uh it's very easy to want to try
to avoid that by hiring people who are
purely incredibly loyal and I don't
think that's a good idea. It's like I I
see it as a sign that we're hiring the
right people uh if if if we we keep
doing that. So I'm excited to see like
the sum total of amazing things that the
people who have ever set foot at RAMP or
or worked with us will will do over
their lifetime. Um incredibly in awe at
the talent that we have. I mean, even
this past summer, one of our like
interns while he was interning at the
company like won a gold medal at the
International Physics Olympiad. It's
just I mean, incredible what what some
of uh the people at RAMP have been able
to achieve. So, talent, very proud of
that.
>> I think you know my traditional closing
question. What's the kindest thing that
anyone's ever done for you? The one
that's been like most impactful on on
the rest of my life probably happened
early on when I was uh going through the
research science uh institute at MIT and
I was 16 and first time in the US away
from my family war breaks out in in
Lebanon. the airport's closed
and I had become really close with my
best friend today uh that I had met at
that camp uh Zach uh who you know quite
well uh and uh we're together at the
research science institute and he just
immediately tells me he's like oh like
don't worry about it at all like you
could just uh I mean the camp is ending
in a week you could just uh come with me
and and and and be in New York. My
family is amazing. I already told them
about you. They're very excited to meet
you. This is going to be great. And
little did I know that like that same
day and I I heard that later uh uh a
couple years later from Zach's mom. I
think he called his he called his mom
and was like, "Mom, don't ask any
questions. Uh my friend Kareem is going
to come uh live in New York with us uh
as soon as the camp is done." And I
think his his his mom couldn't even be
in New York around that time. And Zach
had like something else to do. And the
day I met I met his mom and like
welcomed me with with open arms and
everything. Told me that like she would
make sure that I had a great experience
staying with them. And I I show up at
their at their house in the city. And it
was I remember the experience being
amazed the door. They had like hidden
the key for me cuz they couldn't be
there. And I open the door and I go into
like the kitchen and they're like meals
labeled for every day of the week.
There's pocket money on the side in case
I needed for transportation, a list with
all the numbers that I could call if I
needed any help. I was like, "Wow, like
this is amazing." Like, I I don't even
know these people and like they're
they're already treating me like like
family. And uh to this day, like I I
think of Zach and his as family as as my
second family in in the US. and uh spend
a lot of the the holidays together and
uh I mean uh really become part of um my
my family in many ways. But the fact
that they were willing and able to do
this very quickly for for for someone
who was uh a stranger like in retrospect
is like kind of crazy.
>> Pretty amazing story about a person who
may be or probably is the best in
investor of his generation. Um pretty
wild amazing closing story. Kareem,
thanks so much for your time. Thank you,
Patrick. It's awesome.
[Music]